**Hartland's Ego Strengthening - Modernized**

You've become so deeply relaxed that your mind has become highly sensitive and receptive to what I say. Everything you allow into your mind sinks deeply into your subconscious, creating a deep and lasting impression that nothing will erase.

These things you allow into your subconscious begin to exercise greater and greater influence over how you think, how you feel, and how you behave.

Because these things remain firmly embedded in your subconscious after you leave here, they continue to exercise the same powerful influence over your thoughts, feelings, and actions just as strongly when you're at home or at work as when you're with me in this room.

You're so deeply relaxed now that everything I tell you that you allow is going to happen for your own good, exactly as I tell you. Every feeling I tell you that you experience, you experience exactly as I tell you. These same things continue to happen every day, just as powerfully when you're away as when you're here.

As a result of this deep relaxation, you feel physically stronger and more energetic in every way. You feel more alert, more awake, more optimistic. You become much less easily tired, less easily fatigued, less easily discouraged, less easily depressed or anxious. 

Every day you become so deeply interested in what you're doing and what's going on around you that your mind becomes completely distracted away from yourself. You no longer think nearly so much about yourself or dwell on any difficulties. You become much less self-conscious, much less preoccupied with yourself and your own feelings.

Every day your nerves become stronger and steadier, your mind calmer and clearer, more composed, more tranquil. You become much less easily worried, less easily agitated, less easily fearful or apprehensive, less easily upset.

You think more clearly and concentrate more easily. You give your whole undivided attention to whatever you're doing, to the complete exclusion of everything else. Your memory rapidly improves and you see things in their true perspective without magnifying difficulties or allowing them to get out of proportion.

Every day you become emotionally much calmer, much more settled, much less easily disturbed. You become and remain more completely relaxed and less tense each day, both mentally and physically, even when you're no longer seeing me. As you become and remain more relaxed and less tense, you develop much more confidence in yourself—more confidence in your ability to do not only what you have to do each day, but more confidence in your ability to do whatever you ought to be able to do, without fear of failure, without fear of consequences, without unnecessary anxiety or uneasiness.

Because of this, every day you feel more independent, more able to stand up for yourself, to stand on your own feet, to hold your own no matter how difficult or trying things may be.

Every day from this moment forward, you feel a greater feeling of personal well-being, a greater feeling of personal safety and security than you've felt for a long time. Because all these things happen exactly as I tell you they will, they happen more and more rapidly, powerfully, and completely. You feel much happier, much more contented, much more optimistic in every way.

You become much more able to rely upon and depend upon yourself—your own efforts, your own judgment, your own opinions. You feel much less need to have to rely upon or depend upon other people.